---
title: "NBA Graphing: The Extremely Small Rabit Hole"
date: 2023-02-14
---

## why?

I like the NBA. I also like consuming long-form content about it but with my minuscule attention span, the only thing I draw away from is the GRAPHS.

(yes this is inspired by [jxmyhighroller](https://www.youtube.com/@JxmyHighroller)

so I decided to see if I could make some of my own  graphs, and maybe even make them interactive and put them on the web to fuel all the nba arguments for years to come.


## what?

originally, the plan was just to make graphs using NBA data. and the first thing in it was 

# sourcing the data 

there are majorly three ways to source data that I've found. One would be to find and manually download data from websites. and since the data I need is in the magnitudes of thousands there is 
no way that's viable. secondly, I could download datasets of information. it would be concise, easy to work with, and very scalable but since I want data that updates on its own
the only option I was left with was APIs. 

statmuse doesnt have an api afaik and neither does basketball reference. bballref does allow you to down excel sheets of data but again there is no way im doing that. 
stats.nba.com does have an api, but it isnt easy to access and i couldnt find it so i decided to look for third-party wrappers on the stats.nba API.

the one i ended up using is [this one](https://github.com/swar/nba_api) which is actually really well made and i haven't even scratched the surface of all it has

since its in python, i had to, at least for now, use python for this project so any web-based system would have to wait 

## how?

first thing was to get the data I needed for each player. most of the endpoints i saw used player id but luckily nba_api has a function to find player id from player name so we can use that

as in most sports, a lot about players games and comparisons between them can be seen through their statistics and graphing is the easiest way to visualise these 
but to make this program useful ill have to make it customisable enough so that A LOT of graphs can be created

to build the program i took the example of a very commonly used statistic of assists to turnover ratio, which measures how good of a passer you are. 

for this, i arbitrarily choose a random sample of players, which can be made customisable further.

first thing we have to get the assists and turnovers data for each player. we can loop through their player ids (which we got earlier) and use the PlayerCareerStats endpoint
to get data. it gives the headers in the resultSet headers key and values in the resultSets rowSet key. the data here  



